COPYRIGHT  2006 THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Technical Contact: Han-Wei Shen, 
hwshen@cse.ohio-state.edu, (614) 292-0060

Permission is granted to use, copy, distribute, display and create
derivative works from the OSU Flow Integration Library and associated
documentation (the SOFTWARE) in source and object code form for
noncommercial education and research purposes only, provided that no
fee is charged, the above copyright notice, this grant of permission,
and the disclaimer below appear in all copies made; and provided that
the SOFTWARE is not used in connection with life support systems, human
implantation, medical devices, nuclear facilities, nuclear systems or
weapons, aviation, mass transit or any applications where failure or
malfunction could lead to possible loss of life or catastrophic
property damage; and provided that the use or distribution of the
SOFTWARE complies with all United States laws and regulations
controlling the export of commodities and technical data; and provided
that The Ohio State University and authors of the SOFTWARE are
acknowledged in any publications reporting its use, and the name of The
Ohio State University or any of its officers, employees, students or
board members is not used in any advertising or publicity pertaining to
the use or distribution of the SOFTWARE without specific, written prior
authorization. Those desiring to incorporate the SOFTWARE into
commercial products or use the SOFTWARE for commercial purposes should
contact the Office for Technology Licensing, The Ohio State University,
1960 Kenny road, Columbus, Ohio, 43210-1063, (614) 292-1315.

The SOFTWARE is provided AS IS, WITHOUT REPRESENTATION AS TO ITS
FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE, AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, including without limitation the implied warranties
of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and
noninfringement. The Ohio State University has no obligation to provide
maintenance, support, updates, enhancements, or other modifications.
The Ohio State University shall not be liable for any compensatory or
non-compensatory damages, including but not limited to special,
indirect, incidental, or consequential damages, with respect to any
claim arising out of or in connection with the use of the SOFTWARE,
even if it has been or is hereafter advised of the possibility of such
damages.

