=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

camvdfcreate - Generate a VDF metadata file for a CAM data set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<camvdfcreate> [options] I<cam_ncdf_files...> I<vdffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<camvdfcreate> generates a .vdf metafile that defines a VAPOR Data
Collection (VDC) suitable for containing atmospheric simulation
simulat from a CAM model output.  All of the CAM output NetCDF file
names must be provided on the command line, followed the desired
VAPOR (.vdf) file name.

VDC data sets require a vertical coordinate, named ELEVATION, that is measured
in units of length, typically meters. If the B<Z3> variable is present in 
a CAM data set it will be used as the ELEVATION coordinate. If B<Z3> is not
present the ELEVATION coordinate will be approximated using the 
variables below:

=item *

T - Virtual Temperature

=item *

P0 - Pressure Constant

=item *

HYAM - Hybrid A midpoint coefficients

=item *

HYBM - Hybrid B midpoint coefficients

=item *

HYAI - Hybrid A interface coefficients

=item *

HYBI - Hybrid B interface coefficients

=item *

PS - Surface Pressure

=item *

PHIS - Surface Geopotential Height

=head1 OPTIONS


=over 4

=item -vars E<lt>varnamesE<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of 2D and 3D (spatial) data variables
to include in the .vdf file.  In general, the list of variables
should be a subset of the data variables found in the MOM/POP input
files.  If this option is not present the default behavior is to
generate the list of variables from all of the 2D and 3D (spatial)
variables found in any of the MOM/POP netCDF input files.

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -comment E<lt>stringE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -bs E<lt>NXxNYxNZE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -wname E<lt>wave_nameE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -cratios E<lt>vectorE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The command 

    camvdfcreate -vars u:v:temp cam1.nc cam2.nc cam3.nc mydata.vdf

will construct a VDF file, B<mydata.vdf> that will contain the B<u>,
B<v>, and B<temp> variable names for all time steps found in the
CAM netCDF files B<cam1.nc>, B<cam2.nc>, and B<cam3.nc>.  

=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, cam2vdf,

I<Conversion of CAM datafiles to a VAPOR VDC>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
