=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

B<cart2layer> - Insert a Cartesian-gridded variable into a layered VDC

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cart2layer> [options] I<vdffile> I<Cartesian_data_file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cart2layer> reads a 3D Cartesian grid of data from disk, and 
inserts it into an existing layered (eg. WRF) VDC.  This is useful, for example, when one needs to visualize Cartesian data from an external source in
the same 3D space as WRF output.  This application was developed in
order to facilitate 3D visualization of radar data with WRF output data.

The Cartesian data volume must be stored on disk as a contiguous array of
unformatted binary floating point values (32bit precision)
The x- and y-dimensions of the raw data
volume must match those specified in I<vdffile>.  The z dimension of the
raw data grid is specified with the -zlevels options.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -ts E<lt>nE<gt>

The B<-ts> option specifies the integer time step of the data volume. The
default value is 0, which corresponds to the first allowable time step
in a VDC.

=item -zlevels E<lt>numE<gt> 

This option specifies the vertical dimension of the Cartesian grid.  This is required.

=item -varname E<lt>nameE<gt>

This option specifies the name of the variable that the raw data volume 
corresponds to. The name must match a 3D variable name
in the VDF indicated by I<vdffile>.  If the variable does not already exist
in the VDC, it can be added with the application I<vdfedit>. 

=item -maxz E<lt>ztopE<gt>

This option specifies the z-coordinate, in user coordinates, 
corresponding to the top plane of the Cartesian grid.  
This value defaults to 1.0.

=item -minz E<lt>zbotE<gt> 

This option specifies the z-coordinate, in user coordinates, 
corresponding to the bottom plane of the Cartesian grid.  
This value defaults to 0.0.

=item -missval E<lt>valE<gt>

This option specifies the value used to identify missing data in
the source Cartesian grid.  It defaults to -999.0.  Points in the source data that match this value will be mapped to the value specified by the -missout option.

=item -missout E<lt>valE<gt>

This option specifies the value that will be assigned to the VDC variable
at points in the layered grid corresponding to missing values from the
Cartesian data grid.  It defaults to -999.0.

=item -topval E<lt>valE<gt>

This option specifies the value that will be assigned to the VDC variable
at points above the top layer of the Cartesian grid. It defaults to -999.0.

=item -botval E<lt>valE<gt>

This option specifies the value that will be assigned to the VDC variable
at points below the bottom layer of the Cartesian grid. It defaults to -999.0.

=item -quiet

Operate quietly without reporting any informational messages. 

=item -help

Provide a short description and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

C<cart2layer -ts 0 -varname dens -zlevels 45 -minz 0 -maxz 10000 foo.vdf dens.raw >

would transform the volume stored in the file B<dens.raw> and write it into 
the VDC associated with the B<foo.vdf> VDF file. The time step and variable 
would be B<0> and B<dens>, 
respectively.  The Cartesian grid is of height 45, and is uniformly spaced vertically from height 0 to height 10000 in the user coordinates of the VDC.  
The variable B<dens> will be assigned the value -999.0 at points above and below the Cartesian grid extents. 

=head1 SEE ALSO

wrfvdfcreate, vdfcreate, vdfedit. 


=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

