=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

flashamr2vdf - Transform Flash AMR hdf5 data into a VDC

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<flashamr2vdf> [options] I<vdffile> I<flash_hdf_file...> 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<flashamr2vdf> reads 3D variables from one ore more Flash hdf5 files,
and stores it in the VAPOR Data Collection (VDC) associated with the
.vdf file I<vdffile>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -varnames E<lt>varsE<gt>

Variables to convert.  A colon delimited list of the 3D variables
you wish to transform, as their names appear in the .vdf file, I<vdffile>.
The default is all 3D variables defined in
both the .vdf file and the Flash hdf5 file.

=item -level E<lt>level<gt>

Specify the maximum AMR hierarchy refinement level saved. By default
the maximum refinement level is determined by the contents of the 
.vdf file. This option may be used to limit the maximum refinement 
level stored in the VDC.

=item -ts E<lt>ts<gt>

Specify the time step offset for the first Flash file found on 
the command line. The time step offset for subsequent Flash files
are determined by incrementing the value of I<ts>.  By default 
the time step of a Flash file is determined by matching the value
of the B<time> parameter found in the file with the values of the
.vdf metafile's b<UserTime> parameter.


=item -rmap 

Include the special derived variable, B<refine_level>. This variable
is created by assigning to each cell sample the refinment level of the
maximimally refined cell containing the sample point.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=item -quiet 

Operate quietly, only reporting fatal errors.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

    flashamr2vdf mydata.vdf flash1 flash2 flash3

transforms all of the variables at the three time steps found in the
Flash hdf5 files B<flash1>, B<flash2>, and B<flash3> that
match the variable names and time stamps found in B<mydata.vdf>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

flashvdfcreate, ncdf2vdf, raw2vdf 

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
