=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

flashvdfcreate - Generate a VDF metadata file for a Flash AMR data set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<flashvdfcreate> [options] I<flash_hdf_file...> I<vdffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<flashvdfcreate> generates a .vdf metafile that will define a VAPOR
Data Collection (VDC) suitable for containing Flash AMR simulation
outputs. One or more Flash AMR hdf5 files are used as templates for
generating I<vdffile>.  Versions 2 and 3 of Flash are supported.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -numts E<lt>numberE<gt>

Maximum number of VDC time steps. By default the number of time 
steps defined in I<vdffile> is the number of Flash files provided
on the command line. This option can be used increase that number. 
Note, however, that the associated UserTime for time steps created in this
manner is calculated as I<ts * deltat>, where <ts> is the offset from
0 to I<numts - 1>, and I<deltat> is as described  below.

=item -deltat E<lt>numberE<gt>

Time between successive time steps in user-defnied units.  This option 
specifies a uniform, floating point sampling interval between successive 
time steps. The option is ignored if the I<-numts> option is not present.

=item -vars3d E<lt>varsE<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of 3D variables (as they appear in the
Flash file) to include in the .vdf file. 

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

The maximum refinement level allowed in the AMR hierarchy. By default 
the maximum refinement level is determined by the Flash B<lrefine_max>
parameter. This option, if present, will limit the maximum refinement
to B<level>.

=item -comment E<lt>stringE<gt>

A comment to be placed in the .vdf file.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

    flashvdfcreate -vars3d velx:vely:velz flash1 flash2 flash3 mydata.vdf

will construct a VDF file, B<mydata.vdf> that will contain the B<velx>,
B<vely>, and B<velz> variable names for three time steps found in the Flash
hdf4 files B<flash1>, B<flash2>, and B<flash3>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

flashamr2vdf

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
