=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

gribcreate - Generate a VDF metadata file for a GRIB data set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<gribvdfcreate> [options] I<grib_files...> I<vdffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gribvdfcreate> generates a .vdf metafile that defines a VAPOR Data
Collection (VDC) suitable for containing simulation output from GRIMs 
models.  All of the model output GRIB filenames must be provided on 
the command line, followed the desired VAPOR (.vdf) output file name.  

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -vars E<lt>varsE<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of 2D and 3D (spatial) data variables
to include in the .vdf file.  In general, the list of variables
should be a subset of the data variables found in the GRIB input
files.  If this option is not present the default behavior is to
generate the list of variables from all of the 2D and 3D (spatial)
variables found in any of the GRIMs GRIB input files.

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -comment E<lt>stringE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -bs E<lt>NXxNYxNZE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -wname E<lt>wave_nameE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -cratios E<lt>vectorE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The command 

    gribvdfcreate -vars u:v:time gribFile1 gribFile2 gribFile3 mydata.vdf

will construct a VDF file, B<mydata.vdf> that will contain the B<u>,
B<v>, and B<temp> variable names for all time steps found in the
MOM netCDF files B<gribFile1>, B<gribFile2>, and B<gribFile3>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, grib2vdf,

I<Conversion of GRIB datafiles to a VAPOR VDC>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
