=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

mom2vdf - Transform MOM netCDF data into a VDC

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mom2vdf> [options] I<mom_ncdf_file...> I<mom_ncdf_topo_file> I<vdffile> 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mom2vdf> reads 3D and 2D variables from one or more MOM netCDF files,
as well as topography data from one MOM NetCDF file,
wavelet transforms the data, and stores it in the VDC associated with
the .vdf file I<vdffile>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -varnames E<lt>varsE<gt>

Variables to convert.  A colon delimited list of the 3D and 2D variables
you wish to transform. Their names must appear in the .vdf file, I<vdffile>.
The variable B<ELEVATION> will always be converted (unless the B<-noelev>
option is present).  The default is to convert all 3D and 2D variables defined in
both the .vdf file and the MOM netCDF file.

=item -numts E<lt>numberE<gt>

Specify the maximum number of time steps to convert. After converting
B<number> time steps, no further processing will take place.

=item -noelev 

Specifies that no B<ELEVATION> variable will be generated.  This option
is useful for adding variables to a VDC when the B<ELEVATION> variable
has already been calculated.

=item -missval E<lt>vars_and_valuesE<gt>

Note:  This option is deprecated and may not be available in future releases of VAPOR.
The argument is a colon-delimited list, consisting of variable names and numerical values.  Each
variable name is followed by one value, that specifies the numerical value that will be 
assigned to the variable in place of the missing value.  This is useful, for example, in
making the flow variables have value 0 below the terrain.


=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt> 

See raw2vdf

=item -lod E<lt>nE<gt> 

See raw2vdf (VDC2 only). 

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=item -quiet 

Operate quietly, only reporting fatal errors.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

    mom2vdf momout1.nc momout2.nc momout3.nc momtopo.nc mydata.vdf 

transforms all of the variables at all of the time steps found in the
MOM netCDF files B<momout1.nc>, B<momout2.nc>, and B<momout3.nc> that
match the variable names and time stamps found in B<mydata.vdf>.  The file B<momtopo.nc> 
contains the topography variables, such as B<ht> and B<geo_lat>.

The command 

    mom2vdf -varnames u:v:w -missval u:0:v:0:w:0 momout1.nc momout2.nc momtopo.nc mydata.vdf 

is similar to the above example except that the converted variables are limited
to the three 3D velocity components, B<u>, B<v>, and B<w>.  The resulting variables will have 
value 0 assigned wherever a missing value was present (i.e. below the terrain).

=head1 SEE ALSO

momvdfcreate, ncdf2vdf, raw2vdf 

I<Conversion of MOM datafiles to a VAPOR VDC>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
