=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

momvdfcreate - Generate a VDF metadata file for a MOM data set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<momvdfcreate> [options] I<mom_ncdf_files...> I<mom_topo_file> I<vdffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<momvdfcreate> generates a .vdf metafile that defines a VAPOR Data
Collection (VDC) suitable for containing ocean simulation output from 
MOM or POP models.  
All of the model output NetCDF filenames must be provided on the command line,
followed by one NetCDF topography filename, and the desired VAPOR 
(.vdf) file name.  The topography file must include variables that do not
change in time, including the depth of the ocean, and the variables defining mappings from the 
model grid to latitude, latitude, and depth.  The topography file may also be included in the collection 
I<mom_netcdf_files>, if it contains data variables that change in time. 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -vars3d E<lt>varsE<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of 3D (spatial) variables to include in the .vdf
file.  In general, the list of variables should be a subset of the 4D (3D space + time)
variables found in the MOM input files.  If this option is not present
the default behavior is to generate the list of 3D variables from all of the 4D
variables found in any of the MOM netCDF input files. 

=item -vars2d E<lt>varsE<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of 2D variables. See B<-vars3d>.  If this is not present, the VDC will
contain all of the 3D variable names (2D horizontal spatial + time) found in the MOM NetCDF input files.

=item -atypvars E<lt>varsE<gt>

Atypical variable names. VAPOR accepts certain names for standard variables.  These include:
B<time>, B<Time>, or B<TIME> for time in days (measured from simulation start time); 
B<ht> for ocean depth in meters; 
B<st_ocean> for the depth of model layers in meters, on the T-grid, i.e. at cell centers;
B<st_edges_ocean> for the depth of model layers in meters, at cell lower-left corners; 
B<sw_ocean> for the depth of model layers in meters at the cell bottom centers;
B<sw_edges_ocean> for model layer depth in meters on the P-grid, i.e. cell bottom lower-left corners.
VAPOR also accepts the following variants for POP data:
B<HU> instead of B<ht>, for ocean depth in centimeters;
B<z_t> replaces B<st_ocean> but measured in centimeters;
B<z_w> replaces B<st_edges_ocean> measured in centimeters;
This option B<-atypvars> is used to specify any other names that are used for these 6 standard variables.
If specified, there must be a colon-delimited list of exactly 6 variable names that replace the standard variable names in the following order: B<time:ht:st_ocean:st_edges_ocean:sw_ocean:sw_edges_ocean> .

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -comment E<lt>stringE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -bs E<lt>NXxNYxNZE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -nfilter E<lt>nE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -nlifting E<lt>nE<gt>
 
See vdfcreate.

=item -vdc2 

Generate a .vdf file for a VDC Type 2 data collection.

=item -wname E<lt>wave_nameE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -cratios E<lt>vectorE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The command 

    momvdfcreate -vars3d u:v:time -level 2 mom1.nc mom2.nc mom3.nc momtopo.nc mydata.vdf

will construct a VDF file, B<mydata.vdf> that will contain the B<u>, B<v>,
and B<temp> variable names for all time steps found in the MOM netCDF files
B<mom1.nc>, B<mom2.nc>, and B<mom3.nc>.  The netCDF file B<momtopo.nc> will contain topography variables
including B<ht>, B<st_ocean>, and B<st_edges_ocean>.  This VDC will include all of the 2D variables that are found in the MOM NetCDF files.


=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, mom2vdf,

I<Conversion of MOM datafiles to a VAPOR VDC>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
