=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

ncdfvdfcreate - Generate a VDF metadata file for a NetCDF data set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ncdfvdfcreate> [options] I<ncdf_files...> I<vdffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ncdfvdfcreate> generates a .vdf metafile that defines a VAPOR
Data Collection (VDC) suitable for containing a collection of data
contained in one or more NetCDF files. The command expects that data 
contained in the list of NetCDF input files to be the result of 
a single simulation. I.e. the same coordinates and dimensions are
used by all files. 

Thus, the command treats a collection of NetCDF files as a single,
time-varying data set containing 2D and 3D spatial variables defined
at a specified timestep, independent of which netCDF file contains the data.

The netCDF variables may be "explicitly" time-varying: the slowest
varying dimension may correspond to time, while the remaining dimensions
correspond to space. Or the variables may be implicitly time-varying,
possessing no explicit time dimension, in which case the time index
of a variable is determined by file ordering. For example, if the
variable "v" is found in the files "a.nc" and "b.nc" and nowhere else,
and "a.nc" preceeds "b.nc" in the list of files provided to the class
constructor, then a.nc is assumed to contain "v" at time step 0,
and "b.nc" contains "v" at time step 1.

The command understands the Arakawa C-Grid ("staggered" variables), and
can interpolate them onto a common (unstaggered) grid.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -dims E<lt>dimensionsE<gt>

Specifies the spatial dimensions of all 3D variables to be considered.
The default is to use the dimensions of the first 3D variable
encountered in the NetCDF files. The format of I<dimensions> is
B<NXxNYxNZ>, where NX is the fastest varying dimension, NY the next
fastest, and NZ the slowest.


=item -vars E<lt>varnamesE<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of 2D and 3D (spatial) data variables
to include in the .vdf file.  In general, the list of variables
should be a subset of the data variables found in the MOM/POP input
files.  If this option is not present the default behavior is to
generate the list of variables from all of the 2D and 3D (spatial)
variables found in any of the MOM/POP netCDF input files.

=item -missattr E<lt>nameE<gt>

Name of netCDF attribute specifying missing value, if any. 

=item -misstv

Use this option if missing data locations may vary between time
steps and/or variables. If this is unknown it is safest to use this 
option at the expense of increased storage requirements.

=item -stagdims E<lt>dimnamesE<gt>

A colon-delimited list specifying the names of any staggered
dimensions.  A "staggered" dimension has dimension one greater than
an unstaggered dimension. Variables defined on staggered grids are 
interpolated to unstaggered grids.

=item -startts E<lt>tsE<gt>

Integer offset of first time step in NetCDF files to be converted

=item -timedims E<lt>dimnamesE<gt>

Colon delimited list of time dimension variable names. Any dimension
names listed with this option are considered time dimensions. Data
variables whose slowest varying dimension is named by this option
are considered time varying.

=item -timevars E<lt>varnamesE<gt>

Colon delimited list of time coordinate variables. If this 1D variable 
is present, it specfies the time in user-defined units for each time 
step. 

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -comment E<lt>stringE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -bs E<lt>NXxNYxNZE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -wname E<lt>wave_nameE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -cratios E<lt>vectorE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The command 

    ncdfvdfcreate -vars u:v:temp file1.nc file2.nc file3.nc mydata.vdf

will construct a VDF file, B<mydata.vdf> that will contain the B<u>,
B<v>, and B<temp> variable names for all time steps found in the
NetCDF files B<file1.nc>, B<file2.nc>, and B<file3.nc>.  Because no
time dimension is specified the variables are assumed to be implicitly
time varying (have no time dimension).

The command 

    ncdfvdfcreate -timedims times -vars u:v:temp file1.nc file2.nc file3.nc mydata.vdf

is identical to the previous example, except that here the variables 
are expected to be explicitly time varying, having their slowest varying
dimension named "times".


=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, ncdf2vdf.

I<Conversion of NetCDF datafiles to a VAPOR VDC>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
