=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

raw2vdf - Transform a raw data volume into a VDC

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<raw2vdf> [options] I<vdffile> I<datafile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<raw2vdf> reads a 3D or 2D volume of data from disk, wavelet transforms
the data, and stores it in the VDC associated with the file I<vdffile>.
The data volume must be stored on disk as a contiguous array of
unformatted binary floating point values (32bit precision by default)
with no header or trailer information. The dimensions of the raw data
volume must match those specified in I<vdffile>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -ts E<lt>nE<gt>

The B<-ts> option specifies the integer time step of the data volume. The
default value is 0, which corresponds to the first allowable time step
in a VDC.

=item -varname E<lt>nameE<gt>

This option specifies name of the variable that the raw data volume 
corresponds too. The name must match either a 2D or 3D variable name
in the VDF indicated by I<vdffile>. If I<name> matches a 2D variable, 
a 2D slice of data expected to be contained in I<datafile>. If I<name> 
matches a 3D variable, B<raw2vdf>
will attempt to read a 3D data volume from I<datafile>.

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

This option can be used to limit the wavelet approximation hierarchy
written to a Type 1 VDC. By default, I<level> == -1, and all levels of the
approximation hierarchy computed by the wavelet transform are stored
in the VDC. If I<level> is 0, only the coarsest approximation is saved.
If I<level> is 1, the coarsest approximation, and first refinement are
saved. And so on. This option is not supported for VDC Type 2 and is silently
ignored if present.

=item -quiet

Operate quietly without reporting any informational messages.

=item -swapbytes 

As data are read from the file I<datafile> their byte ordering is
reversed, making "big endian" numbers "little endian" numbers, or
vice-versa.

=item -dbl 

By default data values stored in the file I<datafile> are assumed to be
32bit. If this option is present 64bit floating point values are read.

=item -xregion E<lt>min:maxE<gt> 

This option limits the reading of the raw data to a subvolume, whose
minimum and maximum integer voxel bounds along the X dimension are given by 
I<min> and I<max>, respectively. The smallest allowable value of I<min> is
0. The largest allowable value of I<max> is I<NX-1>, where I<NX> is the
dimension of the X axis.

=item -yregion E<lt>min:maxE<gt> 

See B<-xregion>

=item -zregion E<lt>min:maxE<gt> 

See B<-xregion>

=item -stagdim E<lt>dimE<gt> 

This option informs B<raw2vdf> that one of the raw data volume 
dimensions is "staggered": data samples are computed on cell faces, not 
cell centers.  A staggered dimension will have I<N>+B<1> sample
points, where I<N> is the axis dimension. A value of B<1> indicates that
the X dimension is staggered, a value of 2 indicates a Y staggered 
dimesion, and so on. By default, no dimensions are staggered.

Staggered dimensions are resampled to cell centers by B<raw2vdf> prior 
to wavelet transforming the data.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

C<raw2vdf -ts 0 -varname vx foo.vdf vx.float>

would transform the volume stored in the file B<vx.float> and write it into 
the VDC associated with the B<foo.vdf> VDF file. The time step and variable 
would be B<0> and B<vx>, 
respectively. 

=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, vdf2raw

I<An Overview of VAPOR Data Collections>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

