=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

romsvdfcreate - Generate a VDF metadata file for a ROMS data set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<romsvdfcreate> [options] I<roms_ncdf_files...> I<roms_grid_file> I<vdffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<romsvdfcreate> generates a .vdf metafile that defines a VAPOR Data
Collection (VDC) suitable for containing ocean simulation output from 
a ROMS model output.  
All of the model output NetCDF filenames must be provided on the command line,
followed by one NetCDF grid filename, and the desired VAPOR 
(.vdf) file name.  The grid file must include variables that do not
change in time, including the depth of the ocean, and the variables defining mappings from the 
model grid to latitude, latitude, and depth.  The grid file may also be included in the collection 
I<roms_netcdf_files>, if it contains data variables that change in time. 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -vars3d E<lt>varsE<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of 3D (spatial) variables to include in the .vdf
file.  In general, the list of variables should be a subset of the 4D (3D space + time)
variables found in the ROMS input files.  If this option is not present
the default behavior is to generate the list of 3D variables from all of the 4D
variables found in any of the ROMS netCDF input files. 

=item -vars2d E<lt>varsE<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of 2D variables. See B<-vars3d>.  If this is not present, the VDC will
contain all of the 3D variable names (2D horizontal spatial + time) found in the ROMS NetCDF input files.

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -comment E<lt>stringE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -bs E<lt>NXxNYxNZE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -nfilter E<lt>nE<gt>

See vdfcreate.

=item -nlifting E<lt>nE<gt>
 
See vdfcreate.

=item -vdc1 

Generate a .vdf file for a VDC Type 1 data collection. By default a VDC Type 2 collection is created.

=item -wname E<lt>wave_nameE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -cratios E<lt>vectorE<gt>

This option is for VDC2 only, see vdfcreate.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The command 

    romsvdfcreate -vars3d u:v:temp -level 2 roms1.nc roms2.nc roms3.nc romsgrid.nc mydata.vdf

will construct a VDF file, B<mydata.vdf> that will contain the B<u>, B<v>,
and B<temp> variable names for all time steps found in the ROMS netCDF files
B<roms1.nc>, B<roms2.nc>, and B<roms3.nc>.  The netCDF file B<romsgrid.nc> will contain time-invariant variables defining the grid.
This VDC will include all of the 2D variables that are found in the ROMS NetCDF files.


=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, roms2vdf,

I<Conversion of ROMS datafiles to a VAPOR VDC>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
