=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

vdf2raw - Inverse transform a field variable found in a VDC and store
the results in a file.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vdf2raw> [options] I<vdffile> I<datafile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<vdf2raw> extracts a field variable from the VDC associated with the
VDF file I<vdffile>, performs and inverse translation on the data,
and stores the results in the file indicated by I<vdffile>.
The data are written as a contiguous array of unformatted binary
floating point values. The X dimension varies fastest, followed by Y, then Z.
Data are written at 32 bit precision in the native format of the 
machine where B<vdf2raw> is run.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -ts E<lt>nE<gt>

The B<-ts> option specifies the integer time step of the variable. The
default value is 0, which corresponds to the first time step
in a VDC.

=item -varname E<lt>nameE<gt>

This option specifies name of the variable to extract. 

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

Data in a VDC are represented by a multiresolution hierarchy. This
option specifies which level in the hierarchy to extract the 
variable from. A value of 0, the default, indicates the 
coarsest level in hierarchy. A value of 1 implies the first 
refinement level, and so on. The special value, -1, is synonymous with
the native data resolution, whatever level that may be.


=item -nthreads E<lt>n<gt>

This option can be used to specify the number of execution threads to be
employed when transforming data. The default value of I<n> is 0, which
causes the application to query the operating system to find the number
of processors available, and then use that value. For most platformsthe number of processors available is the result of the system call,
sysconf(_SC_NPROCESSORS_ONLN).


=item -quiet

Operate quietly without reporting any informational messages.

=item -block 

The internal blocking of the data are preserved as they are written
to disk. 

=item -xregion E<lt>min:maxE<gt> 

This option limits the extraction of the variable to a subvolume, whose
minimum and maximum integer voxel bounds along the X dimension are given by 
I<min> and I<max>, respectively. The smallest allowable value of I<min> is
0. The largest allowable value of I<max> is I<NX-1>, where I<NX> is the
dimension of the X axis.

=item -yregion E<lt>min:maxE<gt> 

See B<-xregion>

=item -zregion E<lt>min:maxE<gt> 

See B<-xregion>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

C<vdf2raw -level -1 -ts 0 -varname vx foo.vdf vx.float>

would inverse transform the variable with name B<vx> and step 0,
associated with the VDC indicated by B<foo.vdf>, and write the results
to the file B<vx.float>. The data would be extracted at their native
grid resolution.

The command 

C<vdf2raw -ts 0 -varname vx foo.vdf vx.float>

would perform identically to the one above except that the 
coarsest data in the hiearchy would be extracted for variable B<vx>.


=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, raw2vdf

I<An Overview of VAPOR Data Collections>


=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

