=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

vdfcp - Copy a vdf dataset, either partially or entirely

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vdfcp> [options] I<srcvdf> I<destination>
B<vdfcp> -list I<srcvdf>
B<vdfcp> -info I<srcvdf>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<vdfcp> copies I<srcvdf>, or part of I<srcvdf>, to I<destination>. The first
form does this. The second form is used to obtain a list of the files that
would be copied if the first form were used on I<srcvdf>. The third form prints
a human-readable message detailing the available ranges of timesteps, variables
and refinement available in I<srcvdf>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -list

Tells vdfcp to list the items it would copy, instead of actually copying them.
This list includes the .vdf metafile itself, and is delimited by newlines.
No destination is needed when -info is given, as nothing will be copied.

=item -info

Tells vdfcp to display available variables, timesteps and levels in a 
human-readable format. If given with arguments like ts0, ts1, numts, level, 
vars and nvars, the report will be limited to the selected ranges. This will 
also tell you if parts of your selection are not available in the dataset. 
No destination is needed when -info is given, as nothing will be copied.
Overrides -list.

=item -vars E<lt>v1:v2:v3:...E<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of variables. These variables will be included
in any listing or copying done by vdfcp at runtime.

=item -nvars E<lt>v1:v2:v3:...E<gt>

A colon-delimited list of names of variables. These variables will NOT be 
included in any listing or copying done by vdfcp at runtime. Overrides -vars.

=item -ts0 E<lt>#E<gt>

The number of the first timestep to copy or scan from the source dataset.
This option has the highest priority of any timestep-related options. 

=item -ts1 E<lt>#E<gt>

The number of the last timestep to copy or scan from the source dataset.

=item -numts E<lt>#E<gt>

The number of timesteps to copy or scan from the source dataset. This option
has the lowest priority of any timestep-related options.

=item -level E<lt>#E<gt>

The highest level of refinement to scan or copy from the source dataset. All
levels below this will be copied as well.

=item -f

Tells vdfcp to overwrite any existing dataset at the specified destination. If
vdfcp is overwriting an existing dataset, it will print warnings.

=item -v

Prints information while copying, including a confirmation of the source and
destination .vdf metafiles, and the variables being copied.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The command...

C<vdfcp -vars P:T -level 2 -ts0 10 -numts 20 path/to/source.vdf path/to/data>

...will copy source.vdf and its associated dataset to the path/to/data directory,
which must exist prior to the execution of the command. If instead of typing 
"path/to/data", the user had typed "path/to/data.vdf", data.vdf would become the
metafile for the new dataset, and data_data would be placed in the same directory.
Only the variables P and T will be copied, only levels 0, 1 and 2, and timesteps
10 through 29 will be copied to the new dataset.


This command...

C<tar -cf foo.tar `vdfcp -list -ts1 50 -numts 20 path/to/source.vdf`>

...will cause tar to archive all files required to represent timesteps 31 to 50 of
source.vdf's associated dataset in foo.tar. Note that when ts1 is used with numts,
the range of copied timesteps ends at ts1. However, if ts0 were also specified,
it would take priority and the range would begin at ts0. If only numts is given,
then the range will begin at the first timestep of the dataset.


This command...

C<vdfcp -info -nvars bx:bz ts1 30 path/to/source.vdf>

...will show the range of levels in source.vdf's dataset, as well as all timesteps
below 30. It will also list all variables except for bx and bz. If the dataset has
no timesteps at or above 30, vdfcp will print an error message and exit.

=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, wrf2vdf, 

I<Copy a VDC to a new location>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
