=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

vdfcreate - Generate a VDF metadata file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vdfcreate> [options] I<vdffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<vdfcreate> generates a .vdf metafile that will define a VAPOR Data
Collection (VDC). A VDC consists of a grouping of related 3D and
2D data volumes, most typically these field variables are solution
outputs to a single numerical simulation. The metadata contents of a
.vdf file establishes common attributes for all data contained in a VDC
(e.g. volume dimension) as well as providing information unique to each
data volume contained in a VDC (e.g. path names to files containing a
particular solution variable).

Data volumes in a VDC are represented hiearchically: each volume
may be accessed at varying, power-of-two coarsened approximations.
Moreover, two types of VDC files are supported: VDC Type 1 (VDC1)
and VDC Type 2 (VDC2).  The latter, VDC2, supports level-of-detail
access in addtion to hierarchical access. The default type is VDC1.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -cratios E<lt>vectorE<gt>

This option (VDC2 only) specifies a colon delimited list of
compression ratios. The minimum compression ratio is 1 (indicating no
compression). The maximum is determined by the wavelet familiy (See
B<-wname>) and the block dimension (See B<-bs>). The default compression 
ratio vector is 500:100:10:1.


=item -dimension E<lt>NXxNYxNZE<gt>

The B<-dimension> option specifies the volumetric dimensions of all 
3D elements of the VDC. I<NX> is an integer specifying the bounds 
(in grid points) of the fastest varying dimension. I<NY> specifies the
bounds of the second fastest varying dimension, and so on.

=item -startt E<lt>timeE<gt>

Starting time in user time coordinates. This option specifies the time
in the user defined coordinate system for the first time step in
the VDC. Correct specification of user time for each time step is 
necessary for accurate time-dependent fields (e.g. velocity). 

=item -deltat E<lt>numberE<gt>

Time in user coordinates between successive time steps.  This option specifies
a uniform, sampling interval between successive time steps in
the user coordinate system for time. 

=item -numts E<lt>nE<gt>

This option specifies the maximum number of time steps that the VDC may
contain. A VDC may contain fewer time steps than what is specified by
the .vdf file, but not more. The default number of time steps is one.

=item -bs E<lt>NXxNYxNZE<gt>

The internal storage blocking factor expressed in voxels. In general
this should not be changed from the default value (32x32x32 for
VDC1, and 64x64x64 for VDC2).

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

This option specifies the number of refinement levels in a Type 1 VDC data
approximation hierarchy. Starting with the native grid resolution, each
successive level in the hierarchy is a factor of two smaller along each
dimension. If I<level> is 0 no hiearchy will be created (all data will be
stored in the VDC at their native resolution). If I<level> is 1 a single
approximation will be created, thus the hierachy will have two levels:
the native grid resolution, and the first approximation.  And so on.

=item -mapprojection E<lt>"proj string"E<gt>

This option specifies a map projection using a PROJ projection string.  This
string must be enclosed in quotes, and consists of several keyword/value pairs
of the form "+key=value".  The full set of PROJ key/value pairs can be found at the
PROJ wiki http://trac.osgeo.org/proj/wiki . For example, a longitude/latitude projection on
a spherical earth is specified as "+proj=latlong +ellps=sphere".  B<VAPOR>
supports Lambert conformal conic, Mercator, Longitude/Latitude, and polar stereographic projections.  The PROJ string is not checked for validity.


=item -nfilter E<lt>nE<gt>

Specifies the number of wavelet filter coefficients to be used when
constructing a Lifting wavelet for transforming data into
the VDC. In general this option should not be changed from the default
value, one. VDC1 only.

=item -nlifting E<lt>nE<gt>

Specifies the number of wavelet lifting coefficients to be used when
constructing a Lifting wavelet for transforming data into the VDC.
In general this option should not be changed from the default value,
one. VDC1 only.

=item -comment E<lt>stringE<gt>

Specifies a comment to be included in the .vdf file. 

=item -gridtype E<lt>typeE<gt>

Specifies the type of the volumetric data grid. Currently supported 
values for I<type> are: B<regular>, B<layered>, B<stretched>, and 
B<block_amr>.  The default is B<regular>, a uniformly sampled Cartesian grid.

=item -usertimes E<lt>pathE<gt>

Specifies the path to a file containing a whitespace-delimited list
of monotonically increasing user times. Each I<user time> is a unitless
floating point value indicating the time associated with a time step. User
times are required for correct calculation of time-dependent algorithms
such as unsteady flow visualization. If this option is present, the
B<-numts>, B<-deltat>, and B<startt> options are ignored. 

=item -coordsystem E<lt>typeE<gt>

Specifies the data coordinate system. Currently support values for 
I<type> are B<cartesian> and B<spherical>. The default is B<cartesian>.

=item -extents E<lt>X0:Y0:Z0:X1:Y1:Z1E<gt>

The option specifies a colon-delimited, 6-element vector defining
the spatial domain extents of all 3D data volumes in a user defined
coordinate system.  I<X0>, I<Y0>, and I<Z0> provided the minimum bounds of
the fastest to slowest varying dimensions, respectively.  I<X1>, I<Y1>,
and I<Z1> provided the maximum bounds of the fastest to slowest varying
dimensions, respectively.  Correct domain extents are required for some
visualization algorithms such as flow integration. For Cartesian data,
if this option is not supplied domain extents will be calculated such
that the largest dimension (in grid points) has extents [0..1.0]. The
other extents are caluclated such that the minimum bound is 0.0 and the
maximum bound assures cubic voxels. For spherical data, the defaults
are calculated as:

    X0 = 0.0 + (360.0 / NX / 2.0) # min_lon
    X1 = 360 - (360 / NX/ 2.0)    # max_lon
    Y0 = 0.0 + (180 / NY / 2.0)   # min_lat
    Y1 = 360 - (180 / NY / 2.0)   # min_lat
    Z0 = 0.0                      # min_radius
    Z1 = 0.5                      # max_radius

where I<NX> and I<NY> are the dimension, in grid points, of the longitude and
latitude coordinates, respectively.

=item -order E<lt>p0:p1:p2E<gt>

A colon-delimited, 3-element vector specifying the permutation ordering of
raw data on disk. The default permutation B<0:1:2>, in the case of
spherical data, for example, indicates 
that Longitude is the fastest varying dimension, followed by
lattitude, then radius. The permutation specification B<2:1:0> would swap
Longitude and Radius dimensions.  Note, that this option not only
permutes the expected ordering of data, but also permutes option arguments
to B<vdfcreate> that specify dimensions. This includes the B<-dimension>,
B<-extents>, and B<-periodic> command line options.

=item -periodic E<lt>b0:b1:b2E<gt>

A colon-delimited, 3-element boolean vector (0==false, 1==true) specifying
the periodicity of the X, Y, and Z coordinate axes. A true value, B<1>,
indicates that the coresponding axis has periodic boundaries. The default
is B<0:0:0>, indicating that all of the boundaries are non-periodic.

=item -varnames E<lt>string_vectorE<gt>

This option is deprecated. Use B<-vars3d>.

=item -vars3d E<lt>string_vectorE<gt>

A colon delimited list of 3D field variable  names to be included in the
VDF. The default is the single element vector, B<var1>.

=item -vars2dxy E<lt>string_vectorE<gt>

A colon delimited list of 2D, XY-plane field variable names to be included 
in the VDF. The default is to include no 2D XY-plane variables.

=item -vars2dxz E<lt>string_vectorE<gt>

A colon delimited list of 2D, XZ-plane field variable names to be included 
in the VDF. The default is to include no 2D XZ-plane variables.

=item -vars2dyz E<lt>string_vectorE<gt>

A colon delimited list of 2D, YZ-plane field variable names to be included 
in the VDF. The default is to include no 2D YZ-plane variables.

=item -vdc2 

Generate a .vdf file for a VDC Type 2 data collection.

=item -wname E<lt>wave_nameE<gt>

=item -{x,y,z}coords E<lt>pathE<gt>

Each option, B<-xcoords>, B<-ycoords>, or B<-zcoords>, specifies
the path to a file containing a whitespace-delimited list of
monotonically increasing (or decreasing) user coordinates for the
X, Y, or Z axis, respectively.  Each I<coordinate> is a unitless
floating point value indicating the user coordinate of the i'th
grid point along the X, Y, or Z axis.  For any axis for which a
coordinate path file is not specified, the grid coordinates are
assumed to have uniform spacing and are computed as described the
the B<-extents> option.  This option is ignored unless the grid
type specified with B<-gridtype> is B<stretched>.

=item -wname E<lt>wave_nameE<gt>

Wavelet family name used for compression (VDC2 only). See the vdfcreate
help message for a list of supported wavelets.

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

C<vdfcreate -dimension 512x512x512 -numts 100 -level 3 -varnames vx:vy:vz foo.vdf>

will produce a VDC Type 1 VDF file named, B<foo.vdf>.  This file
will describe a VDC containing up to 100 time steps, starting from
0 and running through 99; three field variables, B<vx>, B<vy>, and
B<vz>; each volume would have a spatial resolution of 512^3; and
three wavelet transformations would be applied resulting in data
approximations at resolutions 64^4, 128^3, and 256^3.

=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, raw2vdf, vdf2raw

I<An Overview of VAPOR Data Collections>


=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

