=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

vdfedit - Edit the contents of a VAPOR .vdf file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vdfedit> [options] I<vdffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<vdfedit> allows simple editing operations to be performed on a
VAPOR Data Collection (VDC) metafile, I<vdffile>. B<vdfedit> does not
in any way change the contents of the numerical solution data in a VDC; 
it only permits the contents of the parent .vdf file to be modified.
Note, that the newly edited metafile will overwrite the original metafile (a
backup of the original file is saved to I<vdffile>.bak). In general,
it is not possible to change the name of a .vdf file without changing
the name of the data directory associated with the .vdf file.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -addvars3d E<lt>listE<gt>

A colon delimited list of 3D variable names to be added to the .vdf file.

=item -addvars2dxy E<lt>listE<gt>

A colon delimited list of 2D, XY-plane  variable names to be added to 
the .vdf file.

=item -addvars2dxz E<lt>listE<gt>

A colon delimited list of 2D, XZ-plane  variable names to be added to 
the .vdf file.

=item -addvars2dyz E<lt>listE<gt>

A colon delimited list of 2D, YZ-plane  variable names to be added to 
the .vdf file.

=item -delvars E<lt>listE<gt>

A colon delimited list variable names to be deleted from 
the .vdf file. The type of variable (e.g. 3D, 2DXY, 2DXZ) is not 
relevant.

=item -addts E<lt>nE<gt>

Add I<n> time steps to the .vdf file, where I<n> is an
integer. If I<n> is less than zero, I<n> time steps are 
deleted. If I<n> is greater than zero, I<n> time steps are
added. If I<n> is zero the file is unchanged.

=item -timeincr E<lt>deltaE<gt>

This option specifies the increment, I<delta>, between time steps
to be used when calculating the B<UserTime> VDF keyword. I<delta> is a floating point number. The default value is 1.0.

=item -mapprojection E<lt>"proj_string"E<gt>

This option specifies a map projection using a PROJ projection string.  This
string must be enclosed in quotes, and consists of several keyword/value pairs
of the form "+key=value".  The full set of PROJ key/value pairs can be found at the
PROJ wiki http://trac.osgeo.org/proj/wiki . For example, a longitude/latitude projection on
a spherical earth is specified as "+proj=latlong +ellps=sphere".  B<VAPOR>
supports Lambert conformal conic, Mercator, Longitude/Latitude, and polar stereographic projections.
B<vdfedit> does not validate the PROJ string for correctness. 

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

C<vdfedit -addvars3d U:V:W -addts 10 file.vdf>

will add the 3D variables B<U>, B<V>, and B<W> to the .vdf file B<file.vdf>. It
will also increase the number of time steps by 10.

=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate

I<An Overview of VAPOR Data Collections>


=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

