=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

wrf2vdf - Transform WRF netCDF data into a VDC

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<wrf2vdf> [options] I<vdffile> I<wrf_ncdf_file...> 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<wrf2vdf> reads 3D and 2D variables from one ore more WRF netCDF file,
wavelet transforms the data, and stores it in the VDC associated with
the .vdf file I<vdffile>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -varnames E<lt>varsE<gt>

Variables to convert.  A colon delimited list of the 3D and 2D variables
you wish to transform, as their names appear in the .vdf file, I<vdffile>.
The variable B<ELEVATION> will always be converted (unless the B<-noelev>
option is present).  The default is all 3D and 2D variables defined in
both the .vdf file and the WRF netCDF file.

=item -dervars E<lt>varsE<gt>

A Colon delimited list of derived variables to convert.  These must have
been specified in the .vdf file.  The default is to convert all derived
variables defined in the .vdf file.

=item -tsstart E<lt>yyyy-mm-dd_hh:mm:ssE<gt>

First time stamp to convert.  All WRF time steps with time stamps (as
determined by the B<Times> variable) which precede this date and time
will not be converted, even if they come after the starting time stamp
given in the .vdf file.  The default is to convert all time steps present
in the WRF netCDF file for which a match is found in the .vdf file.

The format of the option argument is I<yyyy-mm-dd_hh:mm:ss>, where I<yyyy>
is the four-digit year,  I<mm> is the two-digit month (January == 1),
I<dd> is the day of the month, I<hh> is the hour, I<mm> is the minute,
and I<ss> is the second.

=item -tsend E<lt>yyyy-mm-dd_hh:mm:ssE<gt>

Last time stamp to convert.  All WRF time steps with time stamps (as
determined by the B<Times> variable) which follow this date and time
will not be converted. The default is to convert all time steps present
in the WRF netCDF file for which a match is found in the .vdf file.

=item -numts E<lt>numberE<gt>

Specify the maximum number of time steps to convert. After converting
number time steps, no further processing will take place.

=item -noelev 

Specifies that no B<ELEVATION> variable will be generated.  This option
is useful for adding variables to a VDC when the B<ELEVATION> variable
has already been calculated, or if the WRF NetCDF files do not contain
B<PH> and B<PHB>  

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt> 

See raw2vdf

=item -help 

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=item -quiet 

Operate quietly, only reporting fatal errors.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

    wrf2vdf mydata.vdf wrfout1.ncdf wrfout2.ncdf wrfout3.ncdf 

transforms all of the variables at all of the time steps found in the
WRF netCDF files B<wfout1.ncdf>, B<wrfout2.ncdf>, and B<wrfout3.ncdf> that
match the variable names and time stamps found in B<mydata.vdf>.

The command 

    wrf2vdf -vars3d U:V:W -tsstart 1996-03-01_00:00:00 -tsend \
    1996-03-30_00:00:00 mydata.vdf wrfout1.ncdf wrfout2.ncdf wrfout3.ncdf 

is similar to the above example except that the variables are limited
to the three 3D wind components, B<U>, B<V>, and B<W>, and 
the time stamps must be in the range from B<1996-03-01_00:00:00> to 
B<1996-03-30_00:00:00>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

wrfvdfcreate, ncdf2vdf, raw2vdf 

I<Conversion of WRF-ARW datafiles to a VAPOR VDC>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
